{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1343\cocoasubrtf140
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red52\green52\blue52;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13140\viewh13840\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Michael Ernest Ovaska\
\
A diligent, concise, and thoughtful graphic designer, I have nine year\'92s experience designing information graphics and six-years experience photo editing for The Wall Street Journal. This past Autumn, I completed General Assembly\'92s front-end web development course and I have enjoyed finding new and interesting ways to interactively present visual data-drive trends.\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 WORK EXPERIENCE
\b0 \
\
Senior Graphics Editor\
The Wall Street Journal, London, October 2012-present\
I create, from conception to publication on towards social media, intelligent and complex information graphics for web and print publications. Working with reporters and editors to produce a sophisticated visualisation, I research and analyse a wide range of data sets and economic trends, with a strong emphasis on U.K. and european economics. I have recently started using new skills in front-end web development to conceive, pitch, design and produce complex interactive information graphics and find clean ways to quickly and effectively display static information graphics in a responsive online presence. Last autumn I sat on a panel at City University TKTKTKTKTKTK and discussed the benefits of team work and collaboration in unconventional (???) journalism.\
\
Additionally, I am responsible for the visual integrity and news value of The Wall Street Journal\'92s European edition front page. On a daily basis I undertake an intense photo edit of all major photo wire services live images to present and help determine the front-page photo for the both the print and iPad editions. Recently, I have been utilziing this experience to coordinate with the marketing team to research and select news images that represent The Wall Street Journal and Dow Jones brand identity in the News Building, 1 London Bridge Street. I have commissioned photo shoots and negotiated photo contracts (?) on behalf of The Wall Street Journal, and manage the photo billing for the European graphics department.\
\
\
Graphics Editor\
The Wall Street Journal, Brussels and London, August 2008-October 2012\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Working with a small team of designers and editors, I am responsible for the visual intergrity and accuracy of The Wall Street Journal Europe's print and online platforms. Balancing multiple deadlines each day, I research, coordinate, create and edit breaking-news graphics, maps and photos. As a graphics editor I am in constant communication with news editors in Europe, Asia and the U.S. about page layout, story placement, and art priority. I am also responsible for maintaining The Wall Street Journal's style in all of the graphics. In addition to a daily workload, art direction for Weekend edition, online graphics and photos.
\f0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
Information Graphic Designer\
The Wall Street Journal, New York, February 2006-August 2008\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Responsible for the research, analysis, and visual representation of a diverse array of data and \uc0\u8232 breaking news for the Economy, Leading the News, Corporate Focus and Money & Investing sections. A member of the Information Graphics Department requires consistent coordination with news editors, photo editors and art directors on the inquest and breakdown of stories for relevant graphics, composition of headlines and decks; all the while designing clean, concise and effective information graphics under a strict, daily deadline.\'a0 
\f0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 EDUCATION\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 \
Skidmore College, Saratoga Springs, New York, September 2001-May 2005\
B.S. Studio Art and English Literature\
Schick Gallery Adirondack Award, February 2005\
\
General Assembly, London, Autumn 2014\
Front-End Web Development\
\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 RELATED SKILLS
\b0 \
\
Adobe Illustrator\
Adobe InDesign\
Adobe Photoshop\
Microsoft Excel\
HTML\
CSS\
Javascript/JQuery (have a foundation but actively learning)\
Methode\
\
\
Other\
crocheting\
\
EPL\
Eurovision\
\
\
Greek elections\
scot poll\
gerwage\
\
\
lampedusa\
\
\
\
\
}